Continuing the interview with Mr. Bruce Barber,
who's in Vietnam. We're discussing the effect of
the anti-war feelings within the military.
Continue, please. Well, as I said, I wasn't aware
of any anti-war feelings either in the Air Force or
I don't recall hearing any in the other services.
That's just not the nature of the service. That's
like asking Aggies to root for Texas or something.
It wasn't there. Maybe I didn't see it. Maybe it was
there at some levels, but I wasn't aware of it. What
were your thoughts or feelings when Saigon did
fall in 1975? Well, I thought it was sad. All those
people died, all that money, all that effort, and
it was for nothing, really. We tried to set up a
democratic government in South Vietnam. We
failed.
The United States effort had to be pulled out
primarily because of lack of support. from the
American people and thence the government,
senators, congress. We tried to Vietnamize the
war by saying, okay, we're not going to send our
people over here anymore to get killed, but we're
going to give you all the stuff you need to fight
this war. And then we're going to gradually go back
home and you can fight them. Well, that didn't
work. The Vietnamese didn't have the will to win.
They didn't, you know, the South Vietnamese
didn't. The North Vietnamese did. They cared a lot
more and they were, you know, well-disciplined,
motivated and in the end they just, you know, they
took over the place. Did you see the war perhaps as
more of a civil war between South? I mean, we pretty
much created South Vietnam as an entity, but Did
you think it was more an internal struggle or was it
more communism taking over? I think it was
communism taking over.
The North Vietnamese communistic government,
they wanted the South. They got it. They made a mess
out of it and didn't do anything with it. I didn't
see it as a civil war. Maybe part of it was that.
That's kind of a broad question, but do you think
the Vietnam experiences, I mean obviously it's
changed American foreign policy, but how would
you see it as being detrimental to the policy in
general or I mean, do you think that now that
Reagan's eight years as president has kind of
brought us back to a pre-Vietnam sense of policy?
Well, I don't think so. I don't think it's brought
us back to that point at all. Maybe we've gone back
some distance. But this country doesn't operate
like it did 30 years ago. If it did with a trouble
spot like Lebanon and so forth, And what happened
over there, we'd have sent the troops in there and
taken that place over and straightened that
country out 30 years ago. When the Iranians took
over our embassy, we'd have gone in there and
straightened that place out. But we just don't do
that anymore. It's more a diplomatic approach. We
don't have the big military stick out there waving
it around all the time. and we're a lot less
involved in other countries' business than we
were. There were some things that the CIA did in
Vietnam and so forth in that time period that
become public knowledge that has changed the way
we do business a lot. Would you draw a comparison
between what's going on in Central America with
Vietnam. And then another thing is kind of
Reagan's approach to Vietnam was the fact that,
you know, you mentioned Congress didn't let us
win. You were held back. Do you think that that's, I
mean, as far as like specifically in Central
America? Well, yeah, there's another example
where, you know, that's a far more direct threat to
the United States than South Vietnam ever was, or
Korea. And here we've got... you know, a war and
communist
forces that I think pose a real threat to our
security in the future. I think those rascals will
keep right on coming, and Mexico certainly is in
bad shape to try and fend off any kind of
internal struggle that they might get involved
with. I think that years ago, we'd have been right
in the middle of that Nicaragua business. But
we're not going that way today. The public won't
support it. The Congress won't support it. We just
got to try and work out a political answer. And that
may work and it may not. Just one last question. I
mean as far as, what did you do when you were in
Korea? Were you a fighter pilot there? I was right
out of flight school, or right out of flying
training of course, and I was mostly an air crew. I
was also, well we flew missions similar to those in
Vietnam, but I was also an instructor, an
instrument flying instructor, and I flew people
in the training planes a lot, teaching them
instruments. You always have to have a certain
amount of instruments flying every year,
wherever you are, and that kind of occupied a lot of
my time, but I didn't do any
staff work or anything at that time. I was too
young, really. Could you, as far as the effort in
Korea, I mean, comparable to Vietnam, What would
you tend to say about people that said, well,
Korea, we just went in there and we did it right, and
that's the way we should have done it in Vietnam, to
this extent? Well, Korea
is different terrain, a different type of
warfare, really. We weren't fighting primarily
guerrillas. We were fighting regular forces. and
I think the South Koreans were more motivated than
the South Vietnamese. We did get back to the 38th
parallel and established the kind of government
we wanted, so it was a win in a sense. I
think we're actually losing control over there
and we'll be back on the opposite side of the fence
pretty soon, but it was a different situation
really. Okay, well I guess that's all the
questions I have unless you have any questions or
anything you'd like to say? I don't have anything
else. Scott, I think we covered about everything,
all the questions.
I hope what I have said is some kind of meaningful
and that you can make some kind of report after
this. Okay, well, thanks a lot. Okay, you're
welcome.
Hello, what are you doing?
Are you running out?